Merge pull request #1779 from OpenLiberty/staging (#1782)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2021-10-05-openliberty-jug-presentation.adoc

---
layout: post
title: "Why Open Liberty is Your Next Cloud Native Java Runtime"
# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: 
author_github: https://github.com/ajm01
seo-title: Why Open Liberty is Your Next Cloud Native Java Runtime - OpenLiberty.io

> seo-description: Find out why Open Liberty is Your Next Cloud Native Java Runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
seo-description: Find out why Open Liberty is Your Next Cloud Native Java Runtime. A recap of a presentation and demos at Philly JUG (Philadelphia Java User Group).
```

blog_description: "Find out why Open Liberty is Your Next Cloud Native Java Runtime."
open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
additional_authors: 
- name: 
  github: 
  image:
---
= Why Open Liberty is Your Next Cloud Native Java Runtime
Andrew Mauer <https://github.com/ajm01>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

> As the popularity of a microservice architecture and cloud-native application development experience grows, it is an exciting time to talk about the Open Liberty framework's support of those. I recently had the opportunity to lead a discussion at a meeting of the Philadelphia Java User Group (JUG) meetup where I highlighted the latest features and design ideas contained within Open Liberty. As part of that discussion I ran two demos where I created and interacted with an Open Liberty-hosted RESTful web service as an application developer - both in a local developer environment and live in a remote cluster environment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the popularity of a microservice architecture and cloud-native application development experience grows, it is an exciting time to talk about the Open Liberty framework's support of those. I recently had the opportunity to lead a discussion at a meeting of the Philadelphia Java User Group (JUG) meetup where I highlighted the latest features and design ideas contained within Open Liberty. As part of that discussion I ran two demos where I created and interacted with an Open Liberty-hosted RESTful web service as an application developer - both in a local developer environment and live in a remote Kubernetes cluster environment. 
```

> The focus of the presentation centered around Open Liberty as an open framework for Java developers that highly optimizes the development of microservices using  Eclipse Microprofile and Jakarta EE APIs. To highlight Open Liberty as a flexible, fast and lightweight java runtime, the discussion touched on important Open Liberty framework design attributes such as its simple configuration to enable "Just Enough Runtime" - configuring the server to enable only the subset of features an app needs at runtime, its low operating cost due to a reduced memory footprint based on that minimal configuration, zero migration, kubernetes optimizations and its efficient rapid developer experience. Additionally, the fact that Open Liberty supports the deployment of Spring Boot applications generated an enthusiastic question from a member of the audience interested in understanding how Open Liberty could help a shop with hundreds of Spring Boot applications become more efficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The focus of the presentation centered around Open Liberty as an open framework for Java developers that highly optimizes the development of microservices using Eclipse MicroProfile and Jakarta EE APIs. To highlight Open Liberty as a flexible, fast and lightweight Java runtime, the discussion touched on important Open Liberty framework design attributes such as its simple configuration to enable "Just Enough Runtime" - configuring the framework to enable only the subset of features an application needs at runtime, its low operating cost due to a reduced memory footprint based on that minimal configuration, zero migration, Kubernetes optimizations and its efficient rapid developer experience. Additionally, the fact that Open Liberty supports the deployment of Spring Boot applications generated an enthusiastic question from a member of the audience interested in understanding how Open Liberty could help a shop with hundreds of Spring Boot applications become more efficient.
```

> The second half of the Open Liberty overview detailed its rich developer experience thru Open Liberty's support of rapid development using a tight inner-loop experience provided by the Liberty Maven Plugin. By demonstrating a java RESTful application being enhanced locally in an IDE, the participants were able to see the quick turnaround time developers can achieve using dev mode feature of the Liberty Maven Plugin. Code and configuration updates were shown to take place immediately in a local running Open Liberty Server instance, managed by the Liberty Maven Plugin on behalf of the developer with test cases running automatically providing immediate developer feedback. Additionally, Open Liberty's kubernetes integration points were demonstrated showing that same developer inner-loop experience occurring in a remote development cluster hosted in a Red Hat Open Shift environment. Participants were able to observe in real-time the effect of an application code update being reflected automatically in a remote cluster using the Open Shift ODO tool and the java-openliberty development stack in conjunction with the same Liberty Maven Plugin to manage the open shift interactions on the developers part.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second half of the Open Liberty overview detailed its rich developer experience thru Open Liberty's support of rapid development using a tight inner-loop experience provided by the Liberty Maven Plugin. By demonstrating a Java RESTful application being enhanced locally in an IDE, the participants were able to see the quick turnaround time developers can achieve using the https://openliberty.io/docs/21.0.0.10/development-mode.html[dev mode] feature of the Liberty Maven Plugin. Code and configuration updates were shown to take place immediately in a local running Open Liberty runtime instance, managed by the Liberty Maven Plugin on behalf of the developer with test cases running automatically providing immediate developer feedback. Additionally, Open Liberty's Kubernetes integration points were demonstrated showing that same developer inner-loop experience occurring in a remote development cluster hosted in a Red Hat OpenShift environment. Participants were able to observe in real-time the effect of an application code update being reflected automatically in a remote Kubernetes cluster using the OpenShift Do (odo) tool and the java-openliberty development https://github.com/OpenLiberty/application-stack[stack] in conjunction with the same Liberty Maven Plugin to manage the OpenShift interactions on the developer's part.
```

> The Philadelphia JUG meetup presentation was well attended with 35+ attendees joining via the meetup's web conferencing tool. The host of the meetup was excited to have the group listen to the strengths of Open Liberty and its developer's experience and I was happy to have had the opportunity to speak with this group about the exiting attributes of Open Liberty. If your group is interested in hearing more, please feel free to reach out to [YK and team] to schedule a similar discussion at any time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Philadelphia JUG meetup presentation was well attended with 35+ attendees joining via the meetup's web conferencing tool. The host of the meetup was excited to have the group listen to the strengths of Open Liberty and its developer's experience and I was happy to have had the opportunity to speak with this group about the exiting attributes of Open Liberty. If your group is interested in hearing more, please feel free to reach out to https://twitter.com/yeekangc[YK and team] to schedule a similar discussion at any time.
```

Feel free to check out video segments of the discussion at the following links

* https://youtu.be/h-OrANJInnk[Open Liberty Overview]

> * https://youtu.be/qvoEhgw90Ig[Demo 1 - Developing locally with Open Liberty devmode]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* https://youtu.be/qvoEhgw90Ig[Demo 1 - Developing locally with Open Liberty's dev mode]
```
